---
layout: post
title: Agile In Name Only
date: 2020-06-09 13:01
categories: jekyll blog agile
author: Raels Koder
tags: [agile]
position: right
summary: Being agile is more than adopting the label
---

Having worked in a whole bunch of startups for a very long time, certain undeniable patterns have emerged.  One problematic pattern is the *Gym Membership Syndrome*:  "I got the gym membership, why am I not losing weight?"  Now, clearly, just saying you are agile doesn't make your organization agile.  However, what I have discovered are some new patterns aligned with this one, with attendant analogies.  So, let's have some fun!

#### Parking Lot Syndrome

**Scenario**:  You bought your gym membership, and have taken the time to drive to the gym.  You stay in the car, watching people work out for a while.  Satisfied, you head home to bob for donuts in a tub of Dr. Pepper.

**Agile Equivalent**: You have read the Agile Manifesto and found that it makes sense, so much so that you think you might want to try it in your organization.  However, the idea of working without firm requirements just isn't going to fly, so you go back to working on refining your project portfolio Gantt Chart.

**WWWTP**:  Adopting an agile practice can be like joining a 12-step program in at least one important way:  you need to admit that you are powerless over your addition to requirements.  Big Plans Up Front work well if you have solid (AKA testable) requirements and demonstrable experience solving the same or a very similar problem so that your estimates can be commitments.  However, is that your usual *modus operandus*?  Being able to admit that progress can be made without requirements and commitments up front is the first challenge to overcome.  The *progress* is first and foremost the discovery of the needs themselves and learning about how they can be met, along with developing the experience with the problem domain and technologies involved to make increasingly better estimates over time. If you have perfect knowledge up front, then that is the equivalent of requirements and commitable estimates.  If not, then what you have is honest, transparent feedback that should set you on the right path.

#### But I Went Syndrome

**Scenario**:  You made it to the gym!  You went in!  There is so much there to do that it can be a little overwhelming.  You find that you like the exercise bike, and ride it every visit. Your legs would be in great shape if you went more than once every two weeks, let alone more than *once, period*.  

**Agile Equivalent**:  You set off to adopt an agile practice, setting up a sprint and getting a bunch of Jira tickets together.  At the end of two weeks, some of them are done, some aren't.  Clearly, agile has failed you, so it is back to what you were doing before.

**WWWTP**:  Agile isn't an event, it is a practice.  It is more a mindset than anything else, a determination to foster your team or company into becoming a learning organization.  Venture capitalists have a phrase:  bet the jockey, not the horse.  Developing a great team takes time and more than one shot at something.

#### I RODE THE DAMN BIKE Syndrome
**Scenario**: You joined, you go every day,and you ride the stationary bike like a demon.  Ghost Rider would be impressed.  Your legs are strong AF, but your midsection isn't performing the retreat for which you had hoped.  Upper body strength is also not in the right neighborhood.  So, its time for 12" curls at the bar with nacho chasers to get over your chagrin.   

**Agile Equivalent**: We did sprints -- why are we not awesome yet?

**WWWTP**:  Well, agile is a set of recommendations that, taken together, comprise a proven methodology for achieving better results than most other approaches. *Taken together*.  Sprints don't make you agile.  If you don't write stories, groom them, create a backlog with compelling value for your business, ignore learning opportunities, use ineffective estimating techniques, etc. etc. etc., then perhaps your efforts were necessary but not sufficient.
Agile recommendations are meant to be taken together.  Some are more fundamental than others,  and some can even be skipped without killing your effort.  But some are vital, necessary, and require changing the way you think about problems, solutions, and the paths between them.  
If you keep estimating with time units instead if points, then you are reinforcing how long something takes, not how much effort something takes.  Schedules come after plans.  If you don't have a backlog sorted in order of decreasing business value, why are you surprised when important things don't get finished?  And, most importantly, why should one think that someone can give an accurate delivery date when it isn't crystal clear what they are delivering, nor how they are doing it, whether all the resources they need will be available at the right time, and there will be no unseen interruptions? 
It isn't enough to do just cherry pick agile recommendations.  Diet and exercise individually are ok, but together they are life changers.  So plan to adopt agile practices over time, and plan to address the mindset shifts necessary to make honest commitments, even if that means making no commitments at all for a while.


